---
title: "Examples of Far Left Policies"
date: 2025-01-17T09:52:29-05:00
draft: true
tags:
  - politics
  - economics
summary: "Someone who is 'far-left' is not just a communist, but rather someone who unintentionally hinders leftist progress due to being so deep in their echo chamber."
---

Here's a few things that makes a person far-left, which in my books is left to a communist. Yes you heard that right, being a commie isn't far left, it's the people who take it further than just believing in a set of core principles. There's a difference between having an opinion on what the best economic system is, versus actively defending unethical and immoral foreign regimes or promoting policies that back fire due to a lack of understanding of the economic system. Look no further than the first reason.

I know the far-left will hate me, but it's important to note that the far-left is the reason leftists can never win. When leftist organizations and party's are overtaken my narrow thinkers, policies like zoning reform and proper wealth (real asset) taxes do not win unless it's a leftist stronghold in an already economically correct region. Two great examples are Austin, TX and Edmonton, Alberta. These cities aren't capable of imposing their ideological negatives like rent-control but do understand they need to build more housing for their residents. In cities like San Francisco, the state is enabling bad behaviour by having rent-control laws. Generally speaking, if most citizens in a city are under rent control, they won't care about zoning reform or building more units. Instead they'll care about _renovictions_ which is a whack-a-mole game. Even in a province like Ontario, there's renovictions occurring in rent-controlled units. Instead of promoting building more, cities turn into leftist strongholds and claim that densification / gentrification is bad because poor people will have no where to move (not true), and that builders should not profit off of shelter. So it's okay to profit off of advertising, but putting in work to build a house? That's unethical profit to the far-left.

## Defending Venezuelan Government for Free

The difference between someone who defends Venezuela for free and someone who is paid to do it is that one is delusional and the other is either lacking in ethics or does not have many economic opportunities to pursue. For example, why do Mexicans want to cross the border into the USA? It's because for the same labour, USA pays more. You put in the same work, get paid more, and thus have greater purchasing power.

A note on illegal immigration. The solution to illegal immigration isn't borders, it's making Mexico an economically independent and strong nation. This means clamping down on corruption, clamping down on crime, and bullying Mexico into becoming a nation of higher integrity. It also means growing Mexico's capital stock. For example, it took the USA until the Civil Rights Act was passed before the police was actually bare minimum good instead of being legalized domestic terrorists.

Far leftists defend Maduro and the election, when a rational human being with some basic math skills in Excel can see that the Maduro government faked the election results. The probability of the vote distribution perfectly fitting nice looking percentages is very low. I have a tweet explaining why.

{{< tweet user="elibroftw" id="1818731144424136968" >}}

Also, let's talk sanctions for a second. I don't believe in sanctions. It hurts the global economy and it hurts the people you claim you care about. The USA is sanctioning Venezuela because it's oppressive but it doesn't have an open border policy for Venezuela either. You can't have it both ways. From my perspective, let the people do as well as they can in a global playing field, and if the people want to, they are free to riot against their government. Plenty of countries have done so, Venezuelans are free to do so themselves.

Look at Saudi Arabia, it's also a country I'd call oppressive, but USA has no sanctions against it. It's hypocrisy at its finest, so calling out Venezuela doesn't automatically mean "pro-USA talking points."

## Does not Understand Capital Markets

The other problem with far-leftist is that they think cooperatives are the only way businesses should be structured. They go even further than this and make false claims that cooperatives are illegal. That's not true, capitalism allows for cooperatives but the thing is capital is equal to the summation of labour. The other thing is that capital has to pay for labour, so if a cooperative did occur, the capital has to be so low, or essentially a philanthropic donation, or labour has to take a base pay cut. This is seen in big tech compensation plans though. Labour gets paid a wage plus they get paid stocks, and they get paid even if they are in support roles and not operational roles. Support = non-revenue generation. Operational = gross profit generating.

The thing is that if all businesses were cooperative, they would have a harder time scaling and thus competing on a global scale. It's similar to USSR's car company. When a business is prevented from scaling, they stick to a sustainable growth timeline, which means they can get overlapped by businesses that have more starting capital. When you restrict a businesses ability to raise capital then companies like Google could never surpass companies like GE.

Capital markets is why capital gains is encouraged. Capital markets are not guaranteed a positive return. Stock have only gone up because of innovation and profits, not solely because of exploitation. Stocks can tank and destroy wealth as well when they are overvalued. Stocks are not the summation of labour, rather they are a security with a market value. The only summation of labour is the equity value on a businesses' balance sheet. The stock value is simply a forecast model, and one that does not need to be called "exploitation."

## Price Controls on Agriculture

Any person who thinks instituting a price control on food is a good idea is a far-leftist. Before the internet, sure it could be argued it is a leftist position, but with access to the internet, higher education regarding economics, and historical cases, price controls on food is a far-left policy.

Let's explain why price controls on food are bad. Groceries are in two different markets. There's ingredients, like vegetables, milk, and meat (at different grades), and then there's packaged/processed foods like chips. Ingredients are a perfect competition. The same genetic apple can be produced by different farmers. That's not to say there is no substitution effect for different apple species. Why is it important to note that ingredients are [perfect competition](/posts/what-is-perfect-competition)?

1. If economic profits (accounting profit minus potential income from an alternative business) were positive currently, we'd see more firms enter the industry, which would lower price as time progressed. We know the economics profits are not positive because prices go up every year, which means that the economic profit is zero or negative.
2. Price controls make economic profit negative. We determined that economic profit is already zero or negative, so a price control will guarantee negative economic profit, which will result in firms cutting down on farming and exploring the economic opportunities they had forgone. Expect shortages and in the worst case, the rich (tax base) will flee to countries without price controls. The common person will resort to importing market priced goods from other countries. Any tax on imported food would make the initial situation of "groceries are too expensive" even worse.
3. Solution #1: Government production or subsidy. Given that firms are price takers, governments would need to produce all the food for the entire country. Even though Canada is self-sufficient, global food prices are actually lower than domestic regional prices, and thus groceries are imported rather than sold in the country. If the imported food itself is too expensive, then the government has to take the risk of producing food itself, even though we know that at the very least, the economic profit is negative. It's hard to know whether it'll pan out, so a government would rather subsidize buying food? Both a subsidy and accounting losses increase the government's deficit, and thus taxes would be raised either in the present or the future.
4. Solution #2: Governments should focus on increasing the economic profits of the domestic agriculture industry. An example of a policy that increases the economic cost is a capital gains tax. This unjustly increases the cost of [intergenerational farmer transfers](https://ofa.on.ca/what-farmers-need-to-know-current-status-of-proposed-federal-tax-proposals/). It should not matter whether a firm is incorporated or not, government policy should reduce the economic costs of all all domestic firms in the agricultural industry. Another example is the carbon tax which [intentionally](https://ofa.on.ca/newsroom/ontario-farmers-profoundly-disappointed-at-senate-vote-on-carbon-tax-relief-bill/) does not exempt heating and cooling of livestock buildings and other agricultural production facilities.
