---
title: "How to Enter Politics and Win"
date: 2025-04-28T18:14:50-04:00
draft: true
tags:
  - politics
summary: "This post outlines a strategic guide for ethical individuals aiming to enter and succeed in politics, particularly within a non-proportional electoral system. It emphasizes the importance of being an ethical person with a clear vision and highlights key steps: identifying problems with current leaders, making an impact beyond passing simple bills, joining the opposition party most likely to succeed, becoming a member, networking within the party, and leveraging accomplishments at the provincial/state level for federal aspirations. The author also touches on the importance of social skills and recruiting peers."
---

On second thought, helping someone win is also important! It's a strategic game when the electoral system is not proportional and punishes competition and shared ideals! Two extremes is essentially what fptp rewards instead of parties that compete with one or two differences.

To enter politics we need to decide whether we are ethical person or an unethical person. This guide is for ethical people exactly like me. Well meaning people deserve a hand book. The system will always be stacked against the righteous but we must not give up!

The first step is obviously asking ourselves whether we are even allowed to enter politics. Even for naturalized citizens, the answer is yes, with possibly being the country's leader, but that's not actually everything! To be honest, in the US, the states are more important than the federal government. Just look at abortion and marijuana, these are two big issues that are controlled by the state and not the federal government! The federal government is really about control over aggregate spending. There is only really one way to vote in the federal government which is to vote economically and by that I mean equitable taxation, equitable welfare spending, using debt for capital investment and not for welfare (welfare being OAS, disability, employment insurance, benefits, stimulus cheques). Essentially, if the government wants to increase output / jobs, they should compete with businesses to force suppliers to increase labour employment rather than giving money to everyone which can result in a wealth transfer indirectly to land lords and big corporate shareholders.

The second step is highlighting what the problems of the current leaders are. In my case, I have both a justice and economic issue with Doug Ford. The first issue is that he used s33 to try to squash a union strike. That's unethical to me because if wages were fair to begin with, you could fire everyone and rehire. The economic issue I have with Doug Ford is that he wants to build a fucking tunnel under the 401 instead of building out the train system. We need a train system parallel to the 401 which will alleviate the traffic just like the Lakeshore West line alleviates traffic from the QEW. We also need to do something about housing, and a good start would be building more lines out of markham. Markham should connect to Whitby and every stop should be rezoned for 6 story residential properties with the first floor being a commercial + residential unit for small businesses to flounder. Another issue worth mentioning is preventing municipalities from making bike lanes, but allowing municipalities to zone housing however they want. A fourth issue is the rebate and vote buying. $200/person in Ontario could've been used on increasing disability or reinvesting into our infrastructure projects or even healthcare!

The third step is very important. We need to make an impact, and not just be one of those politicians that passes one simple bill in their entire tenure. We need to figure out a way. The best choice is to join the opposition most likely to succeed the current government. Obviously we need to do this 2 years before any election as the parties will have candidate spots available. We need to "sneak in." Once we know that the party isn't full, we need to become a member. So go ahead and purchase a membership. Note that there are tax credits available if you do donate so keep the receipt in handy for when you file taxes.

The fourth step is getting our name out there within the party. We actually don't care about the community just yet. We need to make a name for ourselves within the party. Have at least one credential under your belt. For me that would be that I graduate with two degrees, a degree in Computer Science, and a degree in Business Administration. A fun fact is that I have a blog post and am well versed with finance and economics.

Let's make a plan for how to network. Of course you can follow any tutorials, but the first is to become socially outgoing. What I mean by socially outgoing is the following situation. My friends and I were waiting in line and suddenly I overheard the person behind me talk about "SMS, API, JSON" so I interjected and started talking to them about what they do, and etc. Then I brought up what my situation is like. Conversations with people can go three ways, usually you want to aim for the ones where the other person has power and you are trying to charm them. The second way is having a strong connection and peer conversation. These types of people can be called upon to talk and do anything. There is no issues in getting stuff done. These are the people you should try to recruit. Then there are people who listen to you. These people are trainable and possibly recruitable but are not yet peers. It's important because these are the next generation and if you think wider you should exploit the power imbalance to not your advantage but your vision's advantage. Remember the vision is more important than the individual. If the vision demands it, you should step down.

Let's continue networking. Where do we go to network. We need to hit spots that are highly social. Volunteering for the party is one. When you have money, you can also attend those galas and etc. The biggest break through is tapping into the leader's circle and gaining rapport with them. Rapport is basically putting someone at ease when you converse with them. They are willing to share details that you find valuable, like how much money they make. How much money do I make? Not enough ;).

First step: provincial/state governance (for 10yrs)
Second step: leverage your accomplishments at the province level to show that you are a qualified candidate who knows what they are doing, and has done good for a region already.
