---
title: "Politics Reactionary Theory"
date: 2022-12-15T17:36:04-05:00
draft: true
tags:
  - politics
---

This is a theory about Reactionary politics by me. Reactionary is something that is already known, however it is often painted as solely being conservative, right wing, and completely ignores the silent majority, the people who either don't vote or have centrist positions. These people simply don't vote because they don't see people in politics that reflect their ideals and since the people don't exist, it often seems like people are binary in their political view. The truth is that there are many people who hold centrist views and views are usually bundled based on common interests and backgrounds.

It is simply arrogant to think people don't vote because they don't care about politics. People care about things that affect them, and if housing prices affect people, and people still choose not to vote, either they would've voted for the majority party if they were to vote or that the best alternative party was not good enough.

I will use myself as an example. In the last Ontario election, I was deciding between the incumbent progressive conservative (PC) party and the new democratic party (NDP). I didn't want to vote for the PC because they didn't state their goals and plans. At the same time, I had doubts about the NDP because although they had ideas, they didn't have plans. In business, for each case, our reports didn't only consist of a recommendation, but also justification, alternatives, and an implementation plan. Even then, there is room to improve. If university students have to meet these standards for specific real and hypothetical cases, then politicians should be held to an even higher standard as the entire country or state affects millions of people, and not thousands of people.

I'm good at talking, but let me back it up with a an example. I live a good life. I have one of the best lives out there. There are only two issues I care about; speed limits on the high way and higher paying jobs. The NDP does not address any of these and cannot because a) people aren't willing to change their stance on highway speed limits b) software engineering is already higher than the median salary in Canada and so any wage increases would be focused on people who weren't blessed with the perfect life circumstances. If you think I program today because I wanted to become a programmer, you would be dead wrong. I won't elaborate on how I became a software developer, but basically, my open mind to try things a second time combined with my dad's eye for things I should be doing = 10/10. I'm finally at the stage where I'm the one answering StackOverflow questions and finding issues with peoples' answers rather than just blindly copying.

So can the NDP learn? Well they shouldn't treat politics like a marketing case. In marketing, we are taught to segment people and then target one of these segments rather than target all; Targeting all is not possible because of different preferences, but that's not to say the product wouldn't benefit them. The messaging has to be targeted but the product does not have to be! When applied to NDP, I don't know what their messaging is because I run adblocker and don't have social media like Instagram anymore, but you can bet your ass they aren't targeting me, and their product (platform) does not have all the features (relevance) that everyone can benefit from. For example, a computer is useful for everyone except the ignorant. Likewise, NDP needs to make their platform useful for everyone or most people, rather than only for those that are in the situation the NDP tries to portray. If we look at only their platform and ignoring any ads they might have, NDP thinks Ontarions don't own homes, have health problems, are senior, don't have a sustainable job, think taxes are good ($1.2B increase in teachers hired alone!), think the worst part about the education is financial and evaluations rather than the curriculum taught, puts their needs below others (NDP messaging is to big polluters pay as if that cost won't be passed to consumers and make Canada less competitive globally which making sure that rural, trades, and low-income people benefit the most from cap-and-trade revenue), and that those who are unemployed are open to working in skilled-trades (messaging is that training will be provided to those that want to learn rather than those who are seeking help to get a job). Not to mention the NDP is calling Ontario a systemic racist state, as if...In their equity platform, they put in one of the only significant point, "Take urgent action to dismantle white supremacist groups in Ontario" without an actual plan on how to do that. How can Ontario have 300+ "alt-right" or white supremacist groups and have them even incorporated as non-profits! I'm not even white, and this is over the top. I guess Indians are the only ones that are considered part of the majority in this country 😂. Just for fun, they place "free contraceptives" later on the list for gender(women) equality and put their new bureaucratic "gender-based analysis plus" system on the top. I might not be a woman, but I know for sure that free contraceptives benefit women more directly than an additional system that would only apply to the government.
